dr k what do you struggle with you were
ao he
aoe healing tons of people but you were
so busy helping others that you never
took the time to explain what you
struggle with in a video
what do you struggle with oh chat
okay let's try to understand something
okay i don't the truth is i don't
struggle much
um and the reason i don't struggle much
is because i figured out how i work
so prior to so this person is saying
like i spend so much time thinking about
other people like
why don't i share what because i've
figured out what works for me
right so i struggled a lot before and
i'll give you guys just an example so
like while
uh before i understood that i was a vata
and i started crafting my life around
being a vata
before that i used to struggle a ton
okay
so like just to remind people you know
vatas are people that whose minds are
like the wind
so i get distracted easily i get bored
easily
i get excited easily and what i found is
that like
that was really challenging because the
world does not
support people who are creative
distractible excitable
and like shift right the world our our
current society
is structured to support people who are
like
focused driven ambitious
and like consistent that's what
matters to people right like if you look
at school school is about
eight hours a day followed by studying a
degree is gained over four years
and so when i went to college like i got
super excited about stuff
so my first year of college i ran for
student government i joined a bunch
of clubs i joined a frat i took
spanish japanese spanish and japanese's
language
i took a philosophy class i took a
chemistry class
failed most of those classes and so like
i was so excitable and distractible that
i kind of wanted to do everything
it was cool and it sucked i failed at
all of it
and so then what started to happen is
like as i started to fail at things i
got like more stressed
out and i was really easy it was really
easy for me to drop stuff too
so on the one hand i'm excited by
japanese class and on the other hand
like
i'm doing bad in spanish class so let me
just quit spanish and do japanese
so i was like it was really easy for me
to be a quitter
and college was this kind of environment
where like
you know it doesn't reward people for
being quitters duh
okay and so for a long time i struggled
and like i struggled bad and was like i
imagine super depressed in retrospect
like you know felt like i was failing
life and stuff like that and then i went
to india like so this went on for two
years failed a bunch of classes had you
know had like a 1.5 gpa or something
managed to pass something here
there so it wasn't like a zero but like
got a couple of c's a d here there maybe
a b
i don't think i got a single a in my
first two years so so then actually so
there's one piece of the story that's
missing so then as i struggled
i you know i went to my dad and i asked
my dad i was like hey like
you know i need help actually i didn't
ask him he was like you're doing too
many things you need to stop doing
stuff so he's like stop doing student
government stop doing your clubs
so i did all that i was like okay i'm
doing too many extracurriculars i just
need to focus
he was like just focus on your studies i
was like okay dad
so i cut everything else out same result
and i was like oh my god i'm so dumb and
then he was like
okay just focus on your studies so i was
like you know what if i can't handle
five classes i'm gonna take three so i
cut down to half a normal course load
same result and then i went to india and
i was like this doesn't make any sense i
was trying to do too much
so if you're trying to do too much the
solution is do less right
so i went to india and one of my
teachers was like that's a terrible idea
oh my god you're destined for failure if
you just
do one thing you're gonna get bored and
i was like wait what
and so what my friend friend or teacher
what they told me was that like
you know you're avata and so what that
means for your temperament
is that like you're gonna get bored
easily so like you need
to have three or four different things
that you do where
you can switch from one to the next like
when you get bored the next thing is
ready for you
but the cool thing is by the time you
get to thing number three
and you get bored of that you can get
excited about thing number one again
and thing number one will be fun and i
was like oh fascinating
so what i did is like structure a life
where you know like i understand my
temperament
and once i understand my temperament i
can structure the life
to be aligned with my temperament
and so now i sort of don't struggle much
do i make mistakes yes
is my life hard in some ways yes do i
deal with what on paper
seems stressful like absolutely but i
think the key thing about like not
struggling is like understanding like
what's your temperament
so as a vata like the key weaknesses of
vata that will cause you to struggle
is that first of all you exist in a bit
the society
so what that means is that like people
are going to be more ambitious than you
that people are going to be more
dedicated than you but what you bring to
the table
is like creativity excitement
spontaneity and like
being dynamic so the cool thing is that
like when a crisis happens
vatas are awesome because they learn
fast so they can deal with things they
can manage a bunch of different stuff
come like
coming at you whereas fitness are like i
need a system to deal with this or this
does not work in the system and we can
kind of see this right like
like they're going to be like oh this
may be a random example but
you know so when like the metoo movement
was happening
in in universities they were like really
slow to respond
right because they had their system
and like the me too movement like didn't
jive with their system
and so they couldn't deal with it so if
you look at institutions like when
allegations of sexual
problems started coming out the the
bitter oriented institutions were like
we can't deal with this so we're gonna
pretend it's not there
meanwhile you look at twitter where
twitter is supervata
so twitter like could handle the metoo
movement like that
right like twitter is adaptable it's
dynamic it has a short attention span
and so when something like the metoo
movement arises twitter can respond to
it very quickly
so it's not that being ambitious and
disciplined is better
it's that most of our structures are
designed
to be that way and furthermore that
that makes certain weaknesses in those
structures
and if you look at the companies and
institutions that responded to the metoo
movement
better they're the ones who had dynamic
leaders
who were a little bit more vata and
they're like okay we have to throw our
current playbook out the window
and let's figure out how to deal with
this crisis now and i've seen this in
startup consulting too where like
if you've got like you know people who
are too bit though will like not be able
to deal with a dynamic environment and
they'll start to fall apart
and then for people who are kapha you
know kaphas tend to be like slow and
methodical
so even so if you're a kapha like in the
pita environment what you'll sort of
find is that other people are like
lobbying for promotions
and they're gunning right like they're
ambitious and you're like oh crap like
maybe i should be more ambitious
it's not like you're all over the place
and you're scattered you're just kind of
like
you know you're kind of chilling like
you like your job you're dedicated at
your job you care about your job but
other people are like fiery
they're like i want to get promoted i
want to do this i want to do this i want
to do this
and kaphas are sort of like i'm actually
okay doing this and should you advocate
for a promotion like absolutely right
you have to learn how to be a little bit
more bitter
but what's the other advantage is like
if you're a kapha like in a bit
if you have a company full of fitness
everyone's going to fight
right everyone's going to be lobbying at
the promotion and be like resentful
towards each other and then crap like
that whereas like office will be like
a stabilizing influence so
i think the key thing the reason i don't
struggle is because like i've sort of
figured out like how i work and that's
why i try to explain like you know
my whole ethos is like bros or women
whatever everything in between homies
let me explain something to you if you
all understand how motivation works
it will transform your life no one
explains this stuff like
the reason i don't struggle is because
like i understand right i'm not saying
i'm special
it's not like i'm brilliant in fact
i'd say the opposite the whole point is
like what i found in india was that
actually this stuff is pretty simple
it's just we don't teach it
right like we don't teach this stuff so
if you guys want to struggle
you know what i'd say is continue trying
to be
what you're not and if you want to not
struggle
understand who you are understand your
strengths
understand your weaknesses understand
the environment that you're
in and try to tailor your life to adapt
to where you are
right so this is where like as a
resident for example
like i would write when i was on call so
other people will be on call and i was
like this is cool i'm here for 24 hours
like i can see a patient
i can write and so like i wrote you know
000 words over the course of like
six weeks and wrote a non-fiction book
about video game addiction it was like
just did that in six weeks so that's
something that a fot that can do
now you asked me to write something like
you know
game of thrones and like i don't have
like it takes a kapha to write game of
thrones and like
grrm seems pretty guffin to me it's like
this long
marathon of like you know i can't write
that
i can spit out a book in six weeks but
it's gonna be random it's gonna be all
over the place and it's like you don't
know what you're going to get
so my twitch is perfect for me it's like
y'all are
chatting at me and like asking me all
these random questions in my vat that
mine's like sweet let's do it
it is so much harder for me to teach at
harvard medical school than it is for me
to teach on twitch
and so the reason i don't struggle is
because i teach here
this is what i'm good at whereas
wait you wrote season eight oh i wish
actually i
if i if i'd written season eight i think
it would have been better right so
like early chat is right it's it's
random dude like i'm good at randomness
like you can give me rng
uh would you say most people in harvard
or pithas i don't know
so i do think that if you look at like
certain
executive leadership positions i'm
pretty sure there's
a bias towards pitta we should just
crowdsource season 8 dude like
i've seen so many like fan like it would
be better if
like the best the best season 8 fan
theory that i thought was like
there was this thing about okay i i
shouldn't say because spoilers
but okay so spoilers
all right if people haven't seen it so
i'm gonna talk about this for a second
i'm gonna count to five
and then spoiler free okay one two three
four five so like the night king instead
of arya showing up out of nowhere and
just killing the night king i saw this
great thing about how like
you know like the night king defeats
everyone and then like jaime lannister
shows up and he's like
you know what they call me and then the
night king is like what he's like king
slayer
and then jaime gets his [ __ ]
redemption arc he kills the knight it's
like
you can that's so easy man
like just have jamie kill the night king
it's like such a small thing it fits so
much
the guy's he's called kingslayer
you're working on a redemption arc and
he [ __ ]
gets crushed by mortar like what the
[ __ ]
like what it's like low hanging fruit
low hanging fruit chat we can literally
crowd source a better
if we sat down and like we were like
twitch writes game of thrones season
eight
we could literally make something better
whatever
so i see lots of people saying jamie
sucks jamie should have killed cersei
instead of the night he like what like
any of that would have been better than
you know there's so much character
development about like
jamie not being a lannister and like
growing you know something like he's
changing right and he just like
run seriously at the end and they just
both die like the [ __ ] yeah what would
be cool though is
you know i don't know why people aren't
writing books but like like patrick
rothfus streams right
he's he streams i think we got to get
like all these folks like patrick
rothfuss
george rr martin and scott lynch and we
got to do some like
solid coaching with them to help them
overcome
whatever it is that's keeping them from
writing right like let's let's
let's start a group for writers
who have books that we want to read and
use our power for good
instead of helping y'all [ __ ] put
your lives together like who the [ __ ]
cares about that
let's let's get wins a winner let's get
that stuff out there like whatever it
takes
we'll teach them how to meditate we'll
teach them how to focus we'll teach them
how to overcome their
internal you know like fears like
because there's a lot of stuff i've
actually worked with successful artists
and there's like
there's stuff there right like because
success can be like one of the most
paralyzing things because when you're
writing your first book
right i can only imagine like when
you're writing your first book it's like
you just have to write it for you it's
the story that you want to tell
and we see this a lot actually in the in
our content creator program
is that the bigger you become the more
creatively constrained you become
it's kind of weird because then what
happens is like
there's something that the people want
from you and the formula that you
use to create the first thing was not
giving people what you want
it's giving people what was in your
heart and the more successful you become
the more your mind gets caught up in
giving people what they want because
they liked so much
about what was in your heart and then it
gets really really
challenging because it gets hard to
access this in here because you don't
know if people are going to be satisfied
with it
and the more that you start caring about
the people the worse your art becomes
and so it's weird but it happens and
it's challenging yeah so i mean people
are saying like money leads the world
and stuff
you know it's like it's it's tough but i
think like as fans
you so we have a certain responsibility
to this right because like
what do you want from people do you
wanna do you want them to give you what
they gave you before
or do you want do you want them to give
you
what they have to give and as fans the
more we are able to
accept what authors give us even if we
don't like it
like and we can say like hey i'm glad
you tried that we're glad you gave us
this anyway even though it's not my cup
of tea
like thank you it's not my favorite but
i'm glad you did it and i'm glad you
innovated and i'm glad you tried i have
a weird issue dr k lately when i turn
uh tune into your stream when we touch
on something that might be relatable to
me i started i
i start getting kind of anxious how do i
fix that you don't fix it
you feel anxious and then you ask
yourself where why am i feeling anxious
where is this coming from
right like you understand it like this
is the thing you guys want to not
struggle
understand right think about like all of
the games that you play where you don't
understand the mechanics and like what
happens you struggle
and once you understand the mechanics
it's like oh this is how this works
so i play some dota and i'll tell you
that
the place that i struggle the most is
dota
and the reason i struggle in dota is
because oftentimes i don't understand it
right like why is this carrie doing this
thing oh my god i can't believe he's
doing it oh my god
this carry is so bad this is so bad
everyone's so bad
and i don't understand i don't
understand the
the greatest revelation chat the
greatest revelation i'm the one who's
bad chad
i'm the one who's bad and once you begin
to understand that once you begin to
understand oh i should have been doing
this oh the reason that like we lost
this game is because
their supports were stacking camps and i
wasn't
the more you understand the less you
struggle and then you start winning
games
it all comes down to video games chat
all lessons of life can be learned
so what should you do when you come in
here and you feel anxious let yourself
feel anxious what's up with that
don't try to make it go away try to
understand where it's coming from
that's the biggest problem of our
society today we're so hell-bent about
trying to make things go away instead of
understanding where they come from
if you talk about like you know like i
i'll see this a lot
we choose to just we just love to hate
whatever the whatever the hate of the
week is
we hate something every week as a
society
you know and it's like i saw this a lot
like i i still remember like talking to
so when when trump won the u.s election
in 2016 like people
you know in in my residency program were
very upset which is understandable a lot
of people were really upset
and like everyone was talking about like
everyone loves talking about how trump
supporters are idiots
but like my point is like do you guys
get that
like a bunch of people voted for this
guy and like what are they thinking you
can't just call them stupid
because there's something there that is
causing these people
to vote for this person if you guys
really
want like things to change we need to
understand those people instead of
calling them stupid
and we see the same thing it's like oh
my son is addicted to video games he's
such a waste of space
it's like try to understand him that's
what we tell our parents that come to
our program like we'll get this often
where parents will be like
my kid needs to be in your coaching
program i'm like does your kid want to
be in my coaching program no
he doesn't why do you think your kid
needs to be in our coaching program
because he's wasting his life okay so
like we're happy to take him if he wants
to be there but if he doesn't want to be
there
we won't take him what we'd love to do
is take you
he's like i don't need coaching he's the
one with the problem
i'm like okay in my experience the
parents who think that way
are the ones that benefit the most from
our coaching program and like
half of them will be like no i don't
need nothing
it's my kid that's the problem
and the ones that show up
are transformed in 12 weeks they're like
wow
i never realized yes that is why you
were struggling
and once you realize the struggles will
stop